We have seen capturing and bubbling in previous question.
This section we are discussing a further, more important concept.
That is, what is event delegation?
This again is a category of DOM and web related question, and there will be three related questions
with this topic.
So in previous question, we have seen bubbling and capturing.
By default, the events bubble up.
It means that when an event is triggered on an element, the same event is also triggered for the elements
ancestors.
This very behaviour allows one excellent event handler pardon guard event delegation.
The benefit of this behaviour is realised when you have multiple deep level elements and let's say on
the deepest level, when an event is fired and you want to handle at a top level, for example, you
have a table of 1000 rows and let's say 15 columns and you want to handle some common execution or common
job on click of each cell to execute.
Can you even think about giving click event handler to each cell?
The answer is absolutely no.
I guess now you can understand why this event delegation is so useful.
Let's try this practically.
Here I have created a table which has three rows and I had a row as well and we are showing some data.
Imagine that we want to deal with every tree.
Click.
Now that is where the problem starts.
If you try to handle the event for and click of beauty, then it becomes really very difficult.
In such cases, if I handle the event on table, for example, then because it is going to bubble on
every tree click, we will be able to execute this function because the event is always going to be
fired whenever a tree is clicked because the events are getting a bubble.
So now this is going to be the output.
Imagine that we just want to deal with this particular deal.
Let's say when I click on this file, it should give me the information that which element is clicked.
How will we do that?
That's where the event object helps you a lot.
Let's try a few things here.
First of all, I have written a main click function on table on click.
So this function is going to be called every time any cell is clicked.
So here's how we make sure that when data is clicked, I want to do something.
In such cases you can use the event dart target property.
Let me write that here.
Event dart target.
Not only this, I will also display event or target dart Dagny.
Now this Dagny property gives you the information that which element is clicked.
Let's say you clicked on.
You clicked on D edge.
You clicked on button.
You clicked on input.
All the elements which you click.
If you want to get the type of element, you can use the tag name.
So I'm saving this file and let's say I click on any of the cell.
If you observe the console because we have tried console log event, our target is displaying this value
and the target date tag name displays Didi.
That is the type of element.
So now you can understand that no matter how many elements you have.
But if you have this bubbling, then it's really easy to handle the deepest level event in the most
easiest way.
Let's say when click of sale, you want that the value you need to refer.
So you always have this value separately as well.
Let's say I just want to refer the value of the cell so I can see event or target dart because it is
an element.
I will say in RHD Yemen.
This will give me only the value.
Dollar ten banana.
1002 earlier it was showing us the HDMI element itself.
It was a complete HDMI element reference because we wrote event dot target.
But here now we are writing even our target dot inner HDMI.
Imagine that a cell of a table has input.
For example, here in the last cell, I want to have an input box.
Let's try.
That type is equal to text and I'm going to end it here.
Let's try the output here.
I click on this text box.
Now if you observe, the first console.log is not giving any output because it is inner HDMI.
Here if I click on any other cell, it does give me the output, but the moment I click here in the
text box, it has stopped working.
It doesn't show any value.
Now, even if I type here and click then also we are not able to refer the value.
The reason is that inner HDMI will not work with input elements because it is not the content of the
element.
So here we have to type the value.
Now I will refresh.
Click here.
Of course, because there is no value, there won't be any output.
But now if I click here, you see that the value entered in the cell is now referred and the tag name
is input.
Now if I click on TV here, that will show me undefined because that is no such thing for an HTML element
called value because it has enriched Yemen.
Now how will you deal with this?
Let's say every time a cell is clicked, you want the value.
Then you will check whether it is an HDMI element.
Like in this case we can see if it is.
The tag name is D.D. then display the value.
Here you can see.
If this tag name is Steely, then you want to display the value.
In this case, we can directly say enriched DML here because it is d d otherwise will display the value.
That's it.
Refreshing the screen.
Click here.
This value is also getting displayed.
And here also you'll be able to refer the value.
So the advantage of bubbling or capturing can be handled in such situations.
Let's discuss related questions of this topic.
First question how event babbling or capturing is useful in practical programming world?
We have already seen you can discuss this scenario that when you have deep level elements and you want
to handle at the top level, then you can use this bubbling or capturing.
When I say deep level, that applies to babbling.
But there can be a reverse scenario, but you can use capturing that on top element.
Something is executed.
It should go till the end.
So that is also possible with capturing.
Second question which property can be used to check the element type on which the event is triggered?
So we have seen that if we want to check the element type, we do use the tag name, event or target
date tag name.
That will be the property.
Third question how can you get value of the element which raised the event?
So here we tried event or target date value or event or target not enriched.
It depends what type of element it is.
Depending on that, you use the property to get the value of the element which actually raised the event.